-----3.1----

1. Implement a class BoundedBuffer<T> as described above using
only Java Semaphore for synchronization—
i.e., Java Lock or intrinsic locks (synchronized) cannot be used.

See CustomBlockingQueue.java


2. Explain why your implementation of BoundedBuffer<T> is thread-safe.
Hint: Recall our definition of
thread-safe class, and the elements to identify/consider in analyzing
thread-safe classes (see slides).

Thread-safe class definition:
State: Consists of our buffer array, and two integers that keep track of the indexes for the array. Semaphores are also part of the state.
Escaping: Our state variables are private, and no reference is exposed through a method
Publication: Our buffer/semaphores are Final, and references are never changed.
Immutability: The content of our buffer is mutable, so we need mutual exclusion when altering it.
Mutual exclusion: We use a combination of a shared lock when modifying the buffer, and two semaphores, that each count availeble insert/take slots.
When a counter is 0, the thread will block, until the other thread has released a slot.

The shared semaphore has one permit to allow one inserter or taker to enter the critical section.
The take semaphore has 0 permits since we cannot let a taker enter before an inserter has inserted an element.
The inserter is limited by the capacity to ensure that we can only insert while there is room available.


3. Is it possible to implement BoundedBuffer<T> using Barriers? Explain your answer.

It wouldn't be benificial, as there is no point where all threads must wait for each other.
But it would be possible, with some hacky code, like just setting barrier capacity to 1, and use it like an ordinary lock.
But it would be a waste of resources, and not a good solution.


4. One of the two constructors to Semaphore has an extra parameter named fair.
Explain what it does, and
explain if it matters in this example. If it does not matter in this example,
find an example where it does matter.

fair is a boolean that determines if the semaphore should be fair or not.
Fair: threads will be awoken in the order they requested the permit (FIFO).
Unfair: threads will be awoken in an arbitrary order.

Without fair, we can have a starvation problem, where example thread 2 is never awoken,
because thread 1 keeps taking the permit.
(Bare in mind, we can have starvation problems with fair set as true)

In a situation where it is important that all threads get a chance to
insert/take, the fair parameter would be important.

---3.2 Person----

1. Implement a thread-safe version of Person using Java intrinsic locks (synchronized).
Hint: The Person class may include more attributes than those stated above;
including static attributes.

2. Explain why your implementation of the Person constructor is thread-safe,
and why subsequent accesses
to a created object will never refer to partially created objects.

State: idCounter is part of the state and is shared across all Person objects.
       The remaining fields are instance variables and are unique to each object.
Escaping: All of the fields are private and no references to the objects are passed
Publication: In the constructors we use intrinsic locks on the person class to ensure safe publication.
Immutability: The state variables can be changed using the methods making the class mutable.
Mutual exclusion: To ensure mutual exclusion we use intrinsic locks.
When checking the idCounter before setting initial id and incrementing idCounter,
we use the intrinsic class lock since idCounter is static.
On the remaining getters and setters with use the intrinsic object lock.

3. Implement a main thread that starting several threads the create and
use instances of the Person class.

We have two threads, t1 and t2, where t1 sets initial id to 1005 and t2
randomly initializes with either 0 or 2005.
Whichever thread initializes first determines the
following sequence of id's.
They should increment meaning we either get ids 0-19, 1005-1024
or 2005-2024 with all 20 ids being unique.

4. Assuming that you did not find any errors when running 3.
Is your experiment in 3 sufficient to prove that
your implementation is thread-safe?

It is impossible to prove that a program is thread-safe just by running tests
since a non-thread safe program is non-deterministic and may give the correct result
in all test case runs, but might eventually fail to a race condition.

---3.3 Semaphore/Barrier---

1. Implement a Semaphore thread-safe class using Java Lock.
Use the description of semaphore provided in the slides.

See CustomSemaphore.java

2. Implement a (non-cyclic) Barrier thread-safe class
using your implementation of Semaphore above.
Use the description of Barrier provided in the slides.

See CustomBarrier.java